I write fiction sci-fi thriller
if I say killer robots you probably
think something like this but I'm
actually not here to talk about fiction
I'm here to talk about very real killer
robots autonomous combat drones now I'm
not referring to predator and Reaper
drones which have a human making
targeting decisions I'm talking about
fully autonomous robotic weapons that
make lethal decisions about human beings
all on their own there's actually a
technical term for this lethal autonomy
now lethally autonomous killer robots
would take many forms flying driving or
just lying in wait and actually they're
very quickly becoming a reality these
are two automatic sniper stations
currently deployed in the DMZ between
North and South Korea both of these
machines are capable of automatically
identifying a human target and firing on
it the one on the left at a distance of
over a kilometer now in both cases
they're still a human in the loop to
make that lethal firing decision but
it's not a technological requirement
it's a choice and it's that choice that
I want to focus on because as we migrate
lethal decision-making from humans to
software we risk not only taking the
humanity out of war but also changing
our social landscape entirely far from
the battlefield that's because the way
humans resolve conflict shapes our
social landscape and this has always
been the case
throughout history for example these
were state-of-the-art weapons systems in
1400 AD now they were both very
expensive to build and maintain but with
these you could dominate the populace
and the distribution of political power
and feudal society reflected that power
was focused at the very top and what
changed technological innovation
gunpowder cannon and pretty soon armor
and castles were obsolete
and it mattered less who you brought to
the battlefield versus how many people
you brought to the battlefield and his
armies grew in size the nation-state
arose as a political and logistical
requirement of Defense and his leaders
had to rely on more of their populace
they began to share power representative
government began to form so again the
tools we use to resolve conflict shape
our social landscape autonomous robotic
weapons are such a tool except that by
requiring very few people to go to war
they risk re centralizing power into
very few hands possibly reversing a five
century trend toward democracy now I
think knowing this we can take decisive
steps to preserve our democratic
institutions to do what humans do best
which is adapt but time is a factor
seventy nations are developing remotely
piloted combat drones of their own and
as you'll see remotely piloted combat
drones are the precursors to autonomous
robotic weapons that's because once
you've deployed remotely piloted drones
there are three powerful factors pushing
decision-making away from humans and on
to the weapon platform itself the first
of these is the deluge of video that
drones produce for example in 2004 the
US drone fleet produced a grand total of
71 hours of video surveillance for
analysis by 2011 this had gone up to 300
thousand hours outstripping human
ability to review it all but even that
number is about to go up drastically
the Pentagon's Gorgon Stare and Argos
programs will put up to 65 independently
operated cameras on each drone platform
and this would vastly outstripping
ability to review it and that means
visual intelligence software will need
to scan it for items of interest and
that means very soon drones will tell
humans what to look at not the other way
around
but there's a second powerful incentive
pushing decision-making away from humans
and onto machines and that's
electromagnetic jamming severing the
connection between the drone and its
operator now we saw an example of this
in 2011 when an American rq-170 Sentinel
drone got a bit confused over Iran due
to a GPS spoofing attack but any
remotely piloted drone is susceptible to
this type of attack and that means
drones will have to shoulder more
decision-making they'll know their
mission objective and they'll make
they'll react to new circumstances
without human guidance they'll ignore
external radio signals and send very few
of their own which brings us to really
the third and most powerful incentive
pushing decision-making away from humans
and onto weapons plausible deniability
now we live in a global economy
high-tech manufacturing is occurring on
most continents cyber espionage is
spiriting way advanced designs to parts
unknown and in that environment it is
very likely that a successful drone
design will be knocked off in contract
factories proliferate in the gray market
and in that situation sifting through
the wreckage of a suicide drone attack
it will be very difficult to say who
sent that weapon this raises the very
real possibility of anonymous war this
could tilt the geopolitical balance on
its head make it very difficult for a
nation to turn its firepower against an
attacker and that could shift the
balance in the 21st century away from
defense and toward offense it could make
military action a viable option not just
for small nations but criminal
organizations private enterprise even
powerful individuals it could create a
landscape of rival warlords undermining
rule of law and civil society now if
responsibility and transparency are two
of the cornerstones of representative
government
autonomous robotic weapons could
undermine both now you might be thinking
that citizens of high-tech nations would
have the advantage in any robotic war
that citizens of those nations would be
less vulnerable particularly against
developing nations but I think the truth
is the exact opposite
I think citizens of high-tech societies
are more vulnerable to robotic weapons
and the reason can be summed up in one
word data data
powers high-tech society's cellphone
geolocation telecom metadata social
media email texts financial transaction
data transportation data it's a wealth
of real-time data on the movements and
social interactions of people in short
we are more visible to machines than any
people in history and this perfectly
suits the targeting needs of autonomous
weapons what you're looking at here is a
link analysis map of a social group
lines indicates social connectedness
between individuals and these types of
maps can be automatically generated
based on the data trail modern people
leave behind
now it's typically used to market goods
and services to targeted demographics
but it's a dual use technology because
targeting is used in another context
notice that certain individuals are
highlighted these are these hubs of
social networks
these are organizers opinion makers
leaders and these people also can be
automatically identified from their
communication patterns now if you're a
marketer you might then target them with
product samples try to spread your brand
through their social group but if you're
a repressive government searching for
political enemies you might instead
remove them eliminate them disrupt their
social group and those who remain behind
lose social cohesion and organization
now in a world of cheap proliferating
robotic weapons borders would offer very
little protection to critics of distant
governments
or transnational criminal organizations
popular movements agitating for change
could be detected early and their
leaders eliminated before their ideas
achieve critical mass and ideas
achieving critical mass is what
political activism and popular
government is all about anonymous lethal
weapons could make lethal action an easy
choice for all sorts of competing
interests and this would put a chill on
free speech and popular political action
the very heart of democracy and this is
why we need an international treaty on
robotic weapons and in particular a
global ban on the development and
deployment of killer robots now we
already have international treaties on
nuclear and biological weapons and while
imperfect these have largely worked but
robotic weapons might be every bit as
dangerous because they will almost
certainly be used and they would also be
corrosive to our democratic institutions
now in November 2012 the US Department
of Defense issued a directive requiring
a human being be present in all lethal
decisions this temporarily effectively
banned autonomous weapons in the US
military
but that directive needs to be made
permanent and it could set the stage for
global action because we need an
international legal framework for
robotic weapons and we need it now
before there's a devastating attack or a
terrorist incident that causes nations
of the world to rush to adopt these
weapons before thinking through the
consequences autonomous robotic weapons
concentrate too much power in too few
hands and they would imperil democracy
itself now don't get me wrong I think
there are tons of great uses for unarmed
civilian drones environmental monitoring
search and rescue logistics if we have
an international treaty on robotic
weapons how do we gain the benefits of
autonomous
drones and vehicles while still
protecting ourselves against illegal
robotic weapons I think the secret will
be transparency no robot should have an
expectation of privacy in a public place
each robot and drone should have a
cryptographically signed ID burned in at
the factory that can be used to track
its movement through public spaces we
have license plates on cars tail numbers
on aircraft this is no different and
every citizen should be able to download
an app that shows the population of
drones and autonomous vehicles moving
through public spaces around them both
right now and historically and civic
leaders should deploy sensors and civic
drones to detect rogue drones and
instead of sending killer drones of our
own up to shoot them down they should
notify humans to their presence and it's
certain very high security areas perhaps
civic drones would snare them and drag
them off to a bomb disposal facility but
notice this is more an immune system
than a weapons system it would allow us
to avail ourselves of the use of
autonomous vehicles and drones while
still preserving our open civil society
we must ban the deployment and
development of killer robots
let's not succumb to the temptation to
automate war autocratic governments and
criminal organizations undoubtedly will
but let's not join them autonomous
robotic weapons would concentrate too
much power and too few unseen hands and
that would be corrosive
to representative government let's make
sure four democracies at least killer
robots remain fiction thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
you